SECURITY_AUDIT.md, before:

# Security Audit Report - Rapid Apollo

## Audit Date: December 2024
## Auditor: Manus AI (Whitehat/Blackhat Perspective)

---

## Executive Summary

This document details the security audit performed on the Rapid Apollo platform, covering authentication, payment processing, API security, and data protection. The audit was conducted from both defensive (whitehat) and offensive (blackhat) perspectives.

---

## 1. Authentication & Authorization

### 1.1 MetaMask Admin Authentication

**Status: ✅ SECURE (with recommendations)**

**Implementation:**
- Challenge-response mechanism with server-generated nonces
- Signature verification using ethers.js
- Timestamp validation to prevent replay attacks

**Findings:**
- ✅ Replay attack prevention via used signature tracking
- ✅ Timestamp expiration check (5 minutes)
- ✅ Wallet address normalization (lowercase)
- ⚠️ **RECOMMENDATION:** Add rate limiting per wallet address

**Implemented Mitigations:**
```typescript
// Signature replay prevention
export async function isSignatureUsed(signature: string): Promise<boolean>
export async function markSignatureUsed(signature: string, walletAddress: string): Promise<void>

// Timestamp validation
const SIGNATURE_VALIDITY_MS = 5 * 60 * 1000; // 5 minutes
```

### 1.2 User Authentication (Manus OAuth)

**Status: ✅ SECURE**

- JWT-based session management
- HttpOnly, Secure, SameSite cookies
- Proper session invalidation on logout

---

## 2. Payment Security

### 2.1 Stripe Integration

**Status: ✅ SECURE**

**Findings:**
- ✅ Server-side payment intent creation
- ✅ Webhook signature verification
- ✅ Idempotency handling
- ✅ No client-side amount manipulation possible

**Webhook Security:**
```typescript
// Stripe webhook signature verification
const event = stripe.webhooks.constructEvent(
  payload,
  signature,
  process.env.STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET
);
```

### 2.2 Coinbase Commerce Integration

**Status: ✅ SECURE**

**Findings:**
- ✅ Server-side charge creation
- ✅ Webhook signature verification (HMAC-SHA256)
- ✅ Charge code validation
- ✅ Amount verification on completion

**Webhook Security:**
```typescript
// Coinbase webhook signature verification
const computedSignature = crypto
  .createHmac('sha256', webhookSecret)
  .update(payload)
  .digest('hex');
```

---

## 3. Input Validation & Sanitization

### 3.1 Problem Statement Input

**Status: ✅ SECURE**

**Zod Schema Validation:**
```typescript
problemStatement: z.string()
  .min(10, 'Problem statement must be at least 10 characters')
  .max(5000, 'Problem statement must be at most 5000 characters')
```

**Findings:**
- ✅ Length validation (10-5000 chars)
- ✅ Type validation via Zod
- ✅ SQL injection prevented by Drizzle ORM parameterized queries
- ⚠️ **RECOMMENDATION:** Add content sanitization before rendering (DOMPurify on frontend)

### 3.2 Tier Validation

**Status: ✅ SECURE**

```typescript
const tierSchema = z.enum(["standard", "medium", "full"]);
```

### 3.3 Wallet Address Validation

**Status: ✅ SECURE**

- Regex validation for Ethereum addresses
- Lowercase normalization for comparison

---

## 4. API Security

### 4.1 Rate Limiting

**Status: ⚠️ NEEDS IMPLEMENTATION**

**Current State:**
- No global rate limiting implemented
- Webhook endpoints unprotected from abuse

**RECOMMENDATION:** Add rate limiting middleware:
```typescript
// Recommended implementation
const rateLimiter = rateLimit({
  windowMs: 15 * 60 * 1000, // 15 minutes
  max: 100, // limit each IP to 100 requests per windowMs
});
```

### 4.2 CORS Configuration

**Status: ✅ SECURE**

- Properly configured for production domain
- Credentials handling enabled

### 4.3 Protected Routes

**Status: ✅ SECURE**

**Protected Procedures:**
- `session.getMyAnalyses` - requires authentication
- `analysis.getMyResults` - requires authentication
- Admin routes - require MetaMask signature

---

## 5. Data Protection

### 5.1 Sensitive Data Storage

**Status: ✅ SECURE**

**Findings:**
- ✅ API keys stored in environment variables
- ✅ No secrets in client-side code
- ✅ Database credentials not exposed

### 5.2 Session Data

**Status: ✅ SECURE**

- Problem statements stored securely
- User data properly isolated
- No cross-user data leakage possible

---

## 6. Identified Vulnerabilities & Fixes

### 6.1 HIGH PRIORITY

| Issue | Status | Fix |
|-------|--------|-----|
| Replay attack on admin auth | ✅ FIXED | Signature tracking in database |
| Webhook tampering | ✅ FIXED | HMAC signature verification |
| Payment amount manipulation | ✅ FIXED | Server-side amount calculation |

### 6.2 MEDIUM PRIORITY

| Issue | Status | Fix |
|-------|--------|-----|
| Rate limiting | ⏳ PENDING | Add express-rate-limit middleware |
| XSS in analysis output | ✅ FIXED | Streamdown component sanitizes markdown |
| CSRF protection | ✅ FIXED | SameSite cookie attribute |

### 6.3 LOW PRIORITY

| Issue | Status | Fix |
|-------|--------|-----|
| Error message verbosity | ⏳ PENDING | Sanitize error messages in production |
| Logging sensitive data | ✅ FIXED | No sensitive data in logs |

---

## 7. Security Headers

**RECOMMENDATION:** Add security headers middleware:

```typescript
app.use(helmet({
  contentSecurityPolicy: {
    directives: {
      defaultSrc: ["'self'"],
      scriptSrc: ["'self'", "'unsafe-inline'"],
      styleSrc: ["'self'", "'unsafe-inline'"],
      imgSrc: ["'self'", "data:", "https:"],
    },
  },
  hsts: {
    maxAge: 31536000,
    includeSubDomains: true,
  },
}));
```

---

## 8. Penetration Test Results

### 8.1 SQL Injection Tests

| Test | Result |
|------|--------|
| `'; DROP TABLE users; --` | ✅ BLOCKED (parameterized queries) |
| `' UNION SELECT * FROM users --` | ✅ BLOCKED |
| `1' OR '1'='1` | ✅ BLOCKED |

### 8.2 XSS Tests

| Test | Result |
|------|--------|
| `<script>alert('xss')</script>` | ✅ ESCAPED |
| `<img onerror="alert('xss')" src="x">` | ✅ ESCAPED |
| `javascript:alert('xss')` | ✅ BLOCKED |

### 8.3 Authentication Bypass Tests

| Test | Result |
|------|--------|
| Forged JWT token | ✅ BLOCKED |
| Expired signature reuse | ✅ BLOCKED |
| Wrong wallet signature | ✅ BLOCKED |

---

## 9. Compliance Checklist

- [x] HTTPS enforced
- [x] Secure cookie attributes
- [x] Input validation
- [x] Output encoding
- [x] Authentication required for sensitive operations
- [x] Payment data handled securely (PCI DSS via Stripe/Coinbase)
- [x] No sensitive data in URLs
- [x] Proper error handling

---

## 10. Recommendations Summary

1. **Implement Rate Limiting** - Add express-rate-limit for API endpoints
2. **Add Security Headers** - Use helmet.js for security headers
3. **Monitor Failed Auth Attempts** - Log and alert on suspicious activity
4. **Regular Dependency Updates** - Keep npm packages updated
5. **Add CAPTCHA** - Consider adding CAPTCHA for public forms

---

## Conclusion

The Rapid Apollo platform demonstrates strong security practices in critical areas including payment processing, authentication, and data protection. The identified medium and low priority issues should be addressed in future iterations, but the current implementation provides a secure foundation for production use.

**Overall Security Rating: 8.5/10**

Commit message:

Checkpoint: Branding Cleanup Complete - ValidateStrategy Rebrand:
- Replaced all "Rapid Apollo" references with "ValidateStrategy"
- Replaced all "Aether Logic" references with "ValidateStrategy"
- Updated email templates (emailService.ts, emailNurturing.ts, paymentConfirmationEmail.ts)
- Updated payment services (paypalService.ts, webhooks.ts)
- Updated authentication (walletAuthService.ts)
- Updated test files (email.test.ts)
- Updated documentation (SECURITY_AUDIT.md, CODE_REVIEW_FINDINGS.md, design-notes.md, findings_homepage_sections.md, todo.md)

All 324 tests passing. No old branding remains in the codebase (verified with grep search).

SECURITY_AUDIT.md, after:

# Security Audit Report - ValidateStrategy

## Audit Date: December 2024
## Auditor: Manus AI (Whitehat/Blackhat Perspective)

---

## Executive Summary

This document details the security audit performed on the ValidateStrategy platform, covering authentication, payment processing, API security, and data protection. The audit was conducted from both defensive (whitehat) and offensive (blackhat) perspectives.

---

## 1. Authentication & Authorization

### 1.1 MetaMask Admin Authentication

**Status: ✅ SECURE (with recommendations)**

**Implementation:**
- Challenge-response mechanism with server-generated nonces
- Signature verification using ethers.js
- Timestamp validation to prevent replay attacks

**Findings:**
- ✅ Replay attack prevention via used signature tracking
- ✅ Timestamp expiration check (5 minutes)
- ✅ Wallet address normalization (lowercase)
- ⚠️ **RECOMMENDATION:** Add rate limiting per wallet address

**Implemented Mitigations:**
```typescript
// Signature replay prevention
export async function isSignatureUsed(signature: string): Promise<boolean>
export async function markSignatureUsed(signature: string, walletAddress: string): Promise<void>

// Timestamp validation
const SIGNATURE_VALIDITY_MS = 5 * 60 * 1000; // 5 minutes
```

### 1.2 User Authentication (Manus OAuth)

**Status: ✅ SECURE**

- JWT-based session management
- HttpOnly, Secure, SameSite cookies
- Proper session invalidation on logout

---

## 2. Payment Security

### 2.1 Stripe Integration

**Status: ✅ SECURE**

**Findings:**
- ✅ Server-side payment intent creation
- ✅ Webhook signature verification
- ✅ Idempotency handling
- ✅ No client-side amount manipulation possible

**Webhook Security:**
```typescript
// Stripe webhook signature verification
const event = stripe.webhooks.constructEvent(
  payload,
  signature,
  process.env.STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET
);
```

### 2.2 Coinbase Commerce Integration

**Status: ✅ SECURE**

**Findings:**
- ✅ Server-side charge creation
- ✅ Webhook signature verification (HMAC-SHA256)
- ✅ Charge code validation
- ✅ Amount verification on completion

**Webhook Security:**
```typescript
// Coinbase webhook signature verification
const computedSignature = crypto
  .createHmac('sha256', webhookSecret)
  .update(payload)
  .digest('hex');
```

---

## 3. Input Validation & Sanitization

### 3.1 Problem Statement Input

**Status: ✅ SECURE**

**Zod Schema Validation:**
```typescript
problemStatement: z.string()
  .min(10, 'Problem statement must be at least 10 characters')
  .max(5000, 'Problem statement must be at most 5000 characters')
```

**Findings:**
- ✅ Length validation (10-5000 chars)
- ✅ Type validation via Zod
- ✅ SQL injection prevented by Drizzle ORM parameterized queries
- ⚠️ **RECOMMENDATION:** Add content sanitization before rendering (DOMPurify on frontend)

### 3.2 Tier Validation

**Status: ✅ SECURE**

```typescript
const tierSchema = z.enum(["standard", "medium", "full"]);
```

### 3.3 Wallet Address Validation

**Status: ✅ SECURE**

- Regex validation for Ethereum addresses
- Lowercase normalization for comparison

---

## 4. API Security

### 4.1 Rate Limiting

**Status: ⚠️ NEEDS IMPLEMENTATION**

**Current State:**
- No global rate limiting implemented
- Webhook endpoints unprotected from abuse

**RECOMMENDATION:** Add rate limiting middleware:
```typescript
// Recommended implementation
const rateLimiter = rateLimit({
  windowMs: 15 * 60 * 1000, // 15 minutes
  max: 100, // limit each IP to 100 requests per windowMs
});
```

### 4.2 CORS Configuration

**Status: ✅ SECURE**

- Properly configured for production domain
- Credentials handling enabled

### 4.3 Protected Routes

**Status: ✅ SECURE**

**Protected Procedures:**
- `session.getMyAnalyses` - requires authentication
- `analysis.getMyResults` - requires authentication
- Admin routes - require MetaMask signature

---

## 5. Data Protection

### 5.1 Sensitive Data Storage

**Status: ✅ SECURE**

**Findings:**
- ✅ API keys stored in environment variables
- ✅ No secrets in client-side code
- ✅ Database credentials not exposed

### 5.2 Session Data

**Status: ✅ SECURE**

- Problem statements stored securely
- User data properly isolated
- No cross-user data leakage possible

---

## 6. Identified Vulnerabilities & Fixes

### 6.1 HIGH PRIORITY

| Issue | Status | Fix |
|-------|--------|-----|
| Replay attack on admin auth | ✅ FIXED | Signature tracking in database |
| Webhook tampering | ✅ FIXED | HMAC signature verification |
| Payment amount manipulation | ✅ FIXED | Server-side amount calculation |

### 6.2 MEDIUM PRIORITY

| Issue | Status | Fix |
|-------|--------|-----|
| Rate limiting | ⏳ PENDING | Add express-rate-limit middleware |
| XSS in analysis output | ✅ FIXED | Streamdown component sanitizes markdown |
| CSRF protection | ✅ FIXED | SameSite cookie attribute |

### 6.3 LOW PRIORITY

| Issue | Status | Fix |
|-------|--------|-----|
| Error message verbosity | ⏳ PENDING | Sanitize error messages in production |
| Logging sensitive data | ✅ FIXED | No sensitive data in logs |

---

## 7. Security Headers

**RECOMMENDATION:** Add security headers middleware:

```typescript
app.use(helmet({
  contentSecurityPolicy: {
    directives: {
      defaultSrc: ["'self'"],
      scriptSrc: ["'self'", "'unsafe-inline'"],
      styleSrc: ["'self'", "'unsafe-inline'"],
      imgSrc: ["'self'", "data:", "https:"],
    },
  },
  hsts: {
    maxAge: 31536000,
    includeSubDomains: true,
  },
}));
```

---

## 8. Penetration Test Results

### 8.1 SQL Injection Tests

| Test | Result |
|------|--------|
| `'; DROP TABLE users; --` | ✅ BLOCKED (parameterized queries) |
| `' UNION SELECT * FROM users --` | ✅ BLOCKED |
| `1' OR '1'='1` | ✅ BLOCKED |

### 8.2 XSS Tests

| Test | Result |
|------|--------|
| `<script>alert('xss')</script>` | ✅ ESCAPED |
| `<img onerror="alert('xss')" src="x">` | ✅ ESCAPED |
| `javascript:alert('xss')` | ✅ BLOCKED |

### 8.3 Authentication Bypass Tests

| Test | Result |
|------|--------|
| Forged JWT token | ✅ BLOCKED |
| Expired signature reuse | ✅ BLOCKED |
| Wrong wallet signature | ✅ BLOCKED |

---

## 9. Compliance Checklist

- [x] HTTPS enforced
- [x] Secure cookie attributes
- [x] Input validation
- [x] Output encoding
- [x] Authentication required for sensitive operations
- [x] Payment data handled securely (PCI DSS via Stripe/Coinbase)
- [x] No sensitive data in URLs
- [x] Proper error handling

---

## 10. Recommendations Summary

1. **Implement Rate Limiting** - Add express-rate-limit for API endpoints
2. **Add Security Headers** - Use helmet.js for security headers
3. **Monitor Failed Auth Attempts** - Log and alert on suspicious activity
4. **Regular Dependency Updates** - Keep npm packages updated
5. **Add CAPTCHA** - Consider adding CAPTCHA for public forms

---

## Conclusion

The ValidateStrategy platform demonstrates strong security practices in critical areas including payment processing, authentication, and data protection. The identified medium and low priority issues should be addressed in future iterations, but the current implementation provides a secure foundation for production use.

**Overall Security Rating: 8.5/10**
